have been working on Ring for 4 months as part of my internship at Savoir-Faire Linux
and thought it would be interesting to speak a bit about this experience at DebConf.

So the goal of this talk is present Ring and quickly go over what it does. However
instead of usual like user pov talk I'm going to change a little bit and present it
from developer's pov.

-> NOT going to speak about why I consider it to be important to use free communication
software such as Ring, I'm not going to be able to do everything in 20mn :)

-> Also, I'll not really show how to use Ring or do some extensive list of available
features

I'd like to present some of the challenges you face when you're a Ring developer,
how interesting they are and...

why you really want to work on this project :)


-------------------


...

it's developed by SFL, and I think it's really interesting to see that companies,
private companies integrate free, open source software in they business model like that

so lots of things, and in general it's getting pretty stable and it has really gained
some maturity over the last years

I'm not going to make a large demo, if you want to come over and try it afterwards
I'll be happy to do so

anyways yesterday evening I lighted a candle to counter the demonstration effects,
it's going to work :)



-------------------


So of course some things are still missing, there are some bugs, and this talk is exactly
about that actually, about the challenges :)


-------------------


For example, let's speak about usernames.

Can you remember that ? It's my RingID. This is used to identify accounts and in this
case it's the fingerprint of my public key.


-------------------


of course not


-------------------


so, we introduced the username. It's separate feature from the DHT and the core of Ring,
and I think it's a very interesting example of challenges because this kind of things is
always hard to do in a distributed and secure way.


-------------------


so what we did is we introduced an Ethereum blockchain which does username to ringID mappings
via a REST API

so, it's a blockchain, it's magic, so, it's distribuyted, right ?

well, I'm not a blockchain expert, but I can say it depends on the type of blockchain
you're using...


-------------------


we can't choose a public blockchain because we can't let any random people operate the registar

in this case it's a consortium blockchain, so only a restricted group of organizations chosen
by the Ring project are going to be able to operate the registar

good tradeoff between private and public blockchain and it has almost the capabilities we wan't :)

i say almost because well in this case the only member of this consortium is savoir faire linux
so we can still make some steps towards distribution :)

the point is, it's going to be a real hard choice to find orgas willing to help on these duties.
those are entities we really have to trust ! So, this is still an open question, and if you know
some trustable arga which would fit, then i'd be happy to hear about them :)

so, that was just a small example of the questions we face. Another one could be, believe me or
not...


-------------------


emoji !

what's interesting with emoji is that they manage it to be cute and break everything at the very
same time. For example we encouter all kind of issues with webkitgtk which is handling V3 emoji
pretty badly, or color fonts which are only supported on recent systems...

We had really funny evenings debugging that, wondering why a hot dog followed by a taco emoji won't
show up or, why the hell the fox emoji is breaking everything :)


-------------------


another this time non technical challenge which is faced by a lot of free software projects is...

being open to external contributors !

sometimes it doesn't work, and you wonder why nobody's contributing, even though you say you're
open, and you publish a lot of photos of cute animals, so one and so forth, but...

in fact it's not always a matter of pinguins and kitten


-------------------


so yeh, there are some things like the fact that we're a small team working full time on Ring, or
the fact that we're using Gerrit for code review, some people have problems with that.

Also, previously we used Tuleap for bug report, and we got lots of complains about that so we migrated to
Gitlab.
